[PT FE] Add readme for pytorch frontend (#20610)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: src/frontends/pytorch/README.md

#### Operations accepting strings

At the moment strings are not supported by OpenVINO core, fortunately in models
strings are usually constants, so we can extract them as `std::string` directly
from Python using `NodeContext::const_input<std::string>()`. 

#### Operations with lists, tuples, dicts

These types are also not supported by OpenVINO core and generally require
implementing transformation for N->N conversion, but in some simple cases lists
and tuples can be processed. There are helpers to work with lists in `utils.hpp`
for example `get_list_as_outputs` allows to get list elements to work with them
in translator or transformation.

### Internal Transformations

In rare cases, PyTorch operation conversion require transformation. The main
difference of transformation from translator is that it works on graph rather
then on `NodeContext` of a single operation. That mean that some functionality
provided by `NodeContext` is not accessible in transformation and usually
require to work with `PtFramworkNode` directly. [General rules](https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.1/openvino_docs_transformations.html)
to write transformations apply to PT FE transformations too.

> ### PyTorch Frontend layer tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PyTorch Frontend Layer Tests
```

The layer tests are Python-based tests and check that a PyTorch operation is
supported by PT FE. The testing pipeline of the layer tests consists of four
steps:
1. Create a simple model containing PyTorch operation to test.
2. Convert this model into OpenVINO Model.
3. Infer the original model using PyTorch and infer OpenVINO Model.
4. Compare the inference results between both frameworks.

To set up environment for running the layer tests, follow these [instructions](../../../tests/layer_tests/README.md).

To test the whole suite of the PyTorch operation set support, run the following command:
```bash
python -m pytest layer_tests/pytorch_tests
```

> ## See also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See Also
```

# OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend

The PyTorch Frontend (PT FE) is a C++ based OpenVINO Frontend component that is
responsible for reading and converting a PyTorch model to an `ov::Model` object
that can be further serialized into the Intermediate Representation (IR) format.

## Key Contacts

People from the [openvino-pytorch-frontend-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/openvinotoolkit/teams/openvino-pytorch-frontend-maintainers)
have the rights to approve and merge PRs to the PyTorch Frontend component.
They can assist with any questions about the component.

## Components

The structure of OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend sources includes the following
directories:

* [include](./include) is a public frontend API.
* [src](./src/) folder contains the sources of the component.

## Architecture

OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend is a C++ component that uses [TorchScriptPythonDecoder](../../bindings/python/src/openvino/frontend/pytorch/ts_decoder.py)

> in Python code to parse PyTorch model from Python object. Usually the frontend is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in Python code to parse a PyTorch model from a Python object. Usually, the frontend is
```

> in Python code to parse PyTorch model from Python object. Usually frontend will
> be used inside [openvino.convert_model](../../../tools/ovc) in Python code or inside
> openvino backend in `torch.compile_model`, in which case `TorchFXPythonDecoder`
> is used to decode `torch.fx.graph`. The whole workflow of model conversion
> looks like the following diagram shows.

Author: ```suggestion
in Python code to parse PyTorch model from Python object. Usually the frontend is
used inside [openvino.convert_model](../../../tools/ovc) in Python code or inside
openvino backend in `torch.compile_model`, in which case `TorchFXPythonDecoder`
is used to decode `torch.fx.graph`. The entire model conversion workflow can be
represented by the following diagram.
```

# OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend

The PyTorch Frontend (PT FE) is a C++ based OpenVINO Frontend component that is
responsible for reading and converting a PyTorch model to an `ov::Model` object
that further can be serialized into the Intermediate Representation (IR) format.

## Key contacts

People from the [openvino-pytorch-frontend-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/openvinotoolkit/teams/openvino-pytorch-frontend-maintainers)
have the rights to approve and merge PRs to the PyTorch Frontend component.
They can assist with any questions about the component.

## Components

The structure of OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend sources includes the following
directories:

* [include](./include) is a public frontend API.
* [src](./src/) folder contains the sources of the component.

## Architecture

OpenVINO PyTorch Frontend is a C++ component that uses [TorchScriptPythonDecoder](../../bindings/python/src/openvino/frontend/pytorch/ts_decoder.py)
in Python code to parse PyTorch model from Python object. Usually frontend will

> be used inside [convert_model](../../../tools/ovc) in Python code or inside

Author: ```suggestion
be used inside [openvino.convert_model](../../../tools/ovc) in Python code or inside
```

openvino backend in `torch.compile_model`, in which case `TorchFXPythonDecoder`
is used to decode `torch.fx.graph`. The whole workflow of model conversion
looks like the following diagram shows.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> torch.compile
    subgraph torch.compile
        torch.fx.graph_module.GraphModule --> TorchFXPythonDecoder
        TorchFXPythonDecoder --> E("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
        E -->|ov::InputModel| F("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
        F --> G[(ov::Model)]
    end

>     A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> convert_model
>     subgraph convert_model
>         subgraph TorchScriptPythonDecoder
>             torch.jit.trace ~~~ torch.jit.script
>         end
>         TorchScriptPythonDecoder --> B("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
>         B -->|ov::InputModel| C("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
>     end
>     convert_model --> D[(ov::Model)]

Author: ```suggestion
    A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> openvino.convert_model
    subgraph openvino.convert_model
        subgraph TorchScriptPythonDecoder
            torch.jit.trace ~~~ torch.jit.script
        end
        TorchScriptPythonDecoder --> B("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
        B -->|ov::InputModel| C("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
    end
    openvino.convert_model --> D[(ov::Model)]
```

>     A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> torch.compile
>     subgraph torch.compile
>         torch.fx.graph_module.GraphModule --> TorchFXPythonDecoder
>         TorchFXPythonDecoder --> E("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
>         E -->|ov::InputModel| F("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
>         F --> G[(ov::Model)]
>     end
>     A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> openvino.convert_model
>     subgraph openvino.convert_model
>         subgraph TorchScriptPythonDecoder
>             torch.jit.trace ~~~ torch.jit.script
>         end
>         TorchScriptPythonDecoder --> B("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
>         B -->|ov::InputModel| C("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
>     end
>     openvino.convert_model --> D[(ov::Model)]

Author: ```suggestion
    A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> torch.compile
    subgraph torch.compile
        subgraph TorchFXPythonDecoder
            torch.fx.graph_module.GraphModule
        end
        TorchFXPythonDecoder --> E("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
        E -->|ov::InputModel| F("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
        F --> G[(ov::Model)]
    end
    A[(torch.nn.Module)] --> openvino.convert_model
    subgraph openvino.convert_model
        subgraph TorchScriptPythonDecoder
            torch.jit.trace ~~~ torch.jit.script
        end
        TorchScriptPythonDecoder --> B("pytorch::FrontEnd::load()")
        B -->|ov::InputModel| C("pytorch::FrontEnd::convert()")
    end
    openvino.convert_model --> D[(ov::Model)]
```

2. Try to maintain the same algorithmic complexity of the decomposition. Fewer operations are usually better.
3. Use the latest OpenVINO opset version for the translation.
4. Use helper routines for operation checks and graph construction from `utils.hpp`.
5. Call `NodeContext::mark_mode()` for each created node.

#### Inplace and Mutable Operations

Some PyTorch operations modify the input tensor rather than the output. For example,
`aten::add` writes the result of addition to the output, but `aten::add_` writes the result
to its first input. To correctly convert such an operation:
* Ensure that the output tensor produced by the translation has the same type and shape as the initial input.
* Call `NodeContext::mutate_input()` to change the input tensor with the new value.

#### PtFrameworkNode Primitive

`PtFrameworkNode` is used to represent unconverted operation from the original
model. You can use `FrontEnd::convert_partially()` instead of `Frontend::convert()`
to get an `ov::Model` containing unconverted operations.

#### Operations Accepting Strings

> At the moment strings are not supported by OpenVINO core. Note that in models
> strings are usually constants, so you can extract them as `std::string` directly
> from Python using `NodeContext::const_input<std::string>()`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment,  OpenVINO core does not support strings. However, since strings in models are usually constants, you can extract them as `std::string` directly from Python using `NodeContext::const_input<std::string>()`. 
```
